hi and welcome to ingredient challenge
with me Rosie Burkett we do see good
food today we're talking lentils we've
got some 200 grams of green just
bog-standard green lentils which I've
soaked in water for a couple of hours
I always Sokol em to us before I cook
them from dry the first thing we're
gonna do is cook our lentils and get
them done so I'm going to drain the
soaking water from the lentils and put
them in a pan with some fresh water okay
we're gonna slice our onions up nice and
quite simple sort of medium so that we
can fry them until they're nice and
crispy so just peel off any of the outer
skin and then just slice them up so you
want them about that thick
so quite nice and fine the lenses have
been cooking for about five minutes now
they're smelling really good and peppery
but you can see there's a little bit of
scum on the surface of the water so what
you want to do if this happens it's just
skimming off like you would you're
making stock while the lentils are
cooking you can roast your fennel as
well and so I'm just going to show you
how I'm gonna prep it and fennel I'm
gonna take off these nice from dbits
these nice fresh green bits because they
can go through at the end almost like a
herb so take those off and set them to
one side and then just cut your fennel
into this thick wedges like that so you
can see they're kind of being held
together still by the vase
so with these n bits that I've taken off
I'm gonna throw these into the pot with
the lentils to give them some lovely
fennel flavor and then I've just got a
few tablespoons of olive oil in a pan
over a medium high heat you want to get
a roasting tray or a plate and cover it
with a bit of absorbent kitchen paper
because we're going to drain the onions
on this to make sure they're super nice
and dry and crunchy
and here immediately that they're
sizzling it's really lovely dark colors
going there these are the lentils and as
you can see I've taken out and discarded
the bay leaf the fennel and the garlic
from them and now we're going to run
these these lovely fennel fronds that we
took off the fennel I'm just gonna run a
knife through those so just finely chop
your fennel fronds like this freshness
stirring that through so you've got your
chilies or you might have olives so just
chop those up nice and small and then
just stir that so I've just got out the
roasted garlic cloves from the fennel
tray and you can see that's lovely and
creamy and roasted and I'm gonna mash
that up and put that into the dressing
as well so it's a little bit hot cuz the
fennel still roasting away but yeah just
mush these down on your chopping board
take out the little hard
it's almost curator smells still bloom
and then I'm gonna mix that in mix that
in here to the mayor so what I'm doing
is I've used about a tablespoon and a
half of shop walk mayor and then I've
added in 1 to 2 teaspoons of Dijon
mustard and so how much you add is
really up to you in terms of how spicy
you want this but I do find that mustard
adds a lovely savory edge to something
like lentils and then a teaspoon or a
cap full of cider vinegar if you've got
lemon juice use that and our fennel is
ready you can see here got some lovely
gorgeous golden caramelization here and
its really soft and buttery and juicy so
this is lovely it's been in the oven at
about 180 what work took 200 fan I'd say
actually and that's been in there for
about 18 to 20 minutes here's my
dressing I'm gonna start by just
dressing the lentils
it's lovely creamy I've added my
dressing into the lentils and I'm just
stirring it through as you can see it's
lovely and creamy and delicious we've
got our crispy fried onion and a lentil
salad there in the bowl looking really
good and delicious and we're just gonna
finish it now with the roasted fennel
that we've made so I'm just
to arrange the fennel on the land talks
like this and I should say that this is
not supposed to be served hot so this is
really an ambient dish which makes it
all the more flexible I think but yeah
you make it and then you leave it at
room temperature if anything the flavors
are just gonna get even better and so
when it's left to kind of mingle with
itself the dried chili and if you had
some fresh herbs now like a little bit
of dill a little bit of parsley that
would be really really nice as well but
there we have it there's the roasted
fennel with crispy onions and mustard a
lentils keep on checking out BBC good
food for more of these recipe and
ingredient challenges we
[Music]